Return-Path: <oleg@okmij.org>
X-Original-To: caml-list@sympa.inria.fr
Delivered-To: caml-list@sympa.inria.fr
Received: from mail3-relais-sop.national.inria.fr (mail3-relais-sop.national.inria.fr [192.134.164.104])
	by sympa.inria.fr (Postfix) with ESMTPS id 708547EE49
	for <caml-list@sympa.inria.fr>; Sat, 21 Sep 2013 02:21:31 +0200 (CEST)
Received-SPF: None (mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr: no sender
  authenticity information available from domain of
  oleg@okmij.org) identity=pra; client-ip=66.39.3.115;
  receiver=mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr;
  envelope-from="oleg@okmij.org"; x-sender="oleg@okmij.org";
  x-conformance=sidf_compatible
Received-SPF: Pass (mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr: domain of
  oleg@okmij.org designates 66.39.3.115 as permitted sender)
  identity=mailfrom; client-ip=66.39.3.115;
  receiver=mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr;
  envelope-from="oleg@okmij.org"; x-sender="oleg@okmij.org";
  x-conformance=sidf_compatible; x-record-type="v=spf1"
Received-SPF: None (mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr: no sender
  authenticity information available from domain of
  postmaster@www1.g3.pair.com) identity=helo;
  client-ip=66.39.3.115;
  receiver=mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr;
  envelope-from="oleg@okmij.org";
  x-sender="postmaster@www1.g3.pair.com";
  x-conformance=sidf_compatible
X-IronPort-Anti-Spam-Filtered: true
X-IronPort-Anti-Spam-Result: ApcCAEzlPFJCJwNzemdsb2JhbABagz+wAgGTXw4BAQsHDQk8gklJDlSJBwyZaKEkjiYEhWADlB+DXAGVGjyBLA
X-IPAS-Result: ApcCAEzlPFJCJwNzemdsb2JhbABagz+wAgGTXw4BAQsHDQk8gklJDlSJBwyZaKEkjiYEhWADlB+DXAGVGjyBLA
X-IronPort-AV: E=Sophos;i="4.90,949,1371074400"; 
   d="scan'208";a="27589658"
Received: from www1.g3.pair.com ([66.39.3.115])
  by mail3-smtp-sop.national.inria.fr with SMTP; 21 Sep 2013 02:21:30 +0200
Received: (qmail 63835 invoked by uid 9370); 21 Sep 2013 00:21:28 -0000
Date: 21 Sep 2013 00:21:28 -0000
Message-ID: <20130921002128.63834.qmail@www1.g3.pair.com>
From: oleg@okmij.org
To: caml-list@inria.fr
Subject: [Caml-list] PEPM 2014: Final call for papers


ACM SIGPLAN 2014 WORKSHOP ON PARTIAL EVALUATION AND PROGRAM MANIPULATION
Mon-Tue, January 20-21, 2014
San Diego, California, USA
co-located with POPL'14

Sponsored by ACM SIGPLAN

http://www.program-transformation.org/PEPM14

SCOPE

The PEPM Symposium/Workshop series aims at bringing together researchers and
practitioners working in the areas of program manipulation, partial evaluation,
and program generation. PEPM focuses on techniques, theory, tools, and
applications of analysis and manipulation of programs.
The 2014 PEPM workshop will be based on a broad interpretation of
semantics-based program manipulation and continue last years'
successful effort to expand the scope of PEPM significantly beyond the
traditionally covered areas of partial evaluation and specialization
and include practical applications of program transformations such as
refactoring tools, and practical implementation techniques such as
rule-based transformation systems. In addition, the scope of PEPM
covers manipulation and transformations of program and system
representations such as structural and semantic models that occur in
the context of model-driven development. In order to reach out to
practitioners, a separate category of tool demonstration papers will
be solicited.

Topics of interest for PEPM 2014 include, but are not limited to:

    Program and model manipulation techniques such as: supercompilation,
      partial evaluation, fusion, on-the-fly program adaptation,
      active libraries, program inversion, slicing, symbolic execution,
      refactoring, decompilation, and obfuscation.

    Program analysis techniques that are used to drive program/model
      manipulation such as: abstract interpretation, termination checking,
      binding-time analysis, constraint solving, type systems,
      automated testing and test case generation.

    Techniques that treat programs/models as data objects including
      metaprogramming, generative programming, embedded domain-specific
      languages, program synthesis by sketching and inductive programming,
      staged computation, and model-driven program generation and
      transformation.

    Application of the above techniques including case studies of program
      manipulation in real-world (industrial, open-source) projects and
      software development processes, descriptions of robust tools capable
      of effectively handling realistic applications, benchmarking.
      Examples of application domains include legacy program understanding
      and transformation, DSL implementations, visual languages and end-user
      programming, scientific computing, middleware frameworks and
      infrastructure needed for distributed and web-based applications,
      resource-limited computation, and security.

To maintain the dynamic and interactive nature of PEPM, we will
continue the category of `short papers' for tool demonstrations and
for presentations of exciting if not fully polished research, and of
interesting academic, industrial and open-source applications that are
new or unfamiliar.

Student attendants with accepted papers can apply for a SIGPLAN PAC
grant to help cover travel expenses and other support. PAC also offers
other support, such as for child-care expenses during the meeting or
for travel costs for companions of SIGPLAN members with physical
disabilities, as well as for travel from locations outside of North
America and Europe. For details on the PAC programme, see its web
page.

All accepted papers, short papers included, will appear in formal
proceedings published by ACM Press. In addition to printed
proceedings, accepted papers will be included in the ACM Digital
Library. A special issue for Science of Computer Programming is
planned with recommended papers from PEPM 2014.

PEPM has also established a Best Paper award. The winner will be
announced at the workshop.

SUBMISSION CATEGORIES AND GUIDELINES

Regular Research Papers must not exceed 12 pages in ACM Proceedings
style (including appendix). Tool demonstration papers and short papers
must not exceed 6 pages in ACM Proceedings style (including
appendix). At least one author of each accepted contribution must
attend the workshop and present the work. In the case of tool
demonstration papers, a live demonstration of the described tool is
expected. Suggested topics, evaluation criteria, and writing
guidelines for both research and tool demonstration papers will be
made available on the PEPM 2014 Web-site. Papers should be submitted
electronically via the workshop web site.

Authors using LaTeX to prepare their submissions should use the new
improved SIGPLAN proceedings style (sigplanconf.cls, 9pt template).

IMPORTANT DATES

    Abstract due: Thu, October 3, 2013 (Extended)
    Paper submission: Thu, October 10, 2013, 23:59, GMT (Extended)
    Author notification: Mon, November 11, 2013
    Camera-ready papers due: * to be announced *

INVITED SPEAKERS

We are happy to announce the two invited speakers of PEPM 2014:

    Manuel Fahndrich (Microsoft Research, USA)
    Sven-Bodo Scholz (Heriott-Watt University, Scotland)

PROGRAM CHAIRS

    Wei-Ngan Chin (National University of Singapore, Singapore)
    Jurriaan Hage (Utrecht University, Netherlands)

PROGRAM COMMITTEE

    Evelyne Contejean (LRI, CNRS, Universite Paris-Sud, France)
    Cristina David (University of Oxford, UK)
    Alain Frisch (LexiFi, France)
    Ronald Garcia (University of British Columbia, Canada)
    Zhenjiang Hu (National Institute of Informatics, Japan)
    Paul H J Kelly (Imperial College, UK)
    Oleg Kiselyov (Monterey, USA)
    Naoki Kobayashi (University of Tokyo, Japan)
    Jens Krinke (University College London, UK)
    Ryan Newton (University of Indiana, USA)
    Alberto Pardo (Universidad de la Republica, Uruguay)
    Sungwoo Park (Pohang University of Science and Technology, South Korea)
    Tiark Rompf (Oracle Labs & EPFL, Switzerland)
    Sukyoung Ryu (KAIST, South Korea)
    Kostis Sagonas (Uppsala University, Sweden)
    Max Schaefer (Nanyang Technological University, Singapore)
    Harald Sondergaard (The University of Melbourne, Australia)
    Eijiro Sumii (Tohoku University, Japan)
    Eric Van Wyk (University of Minnesota, USA)
    Jeremy Yallop (University of Cambridge, UK)

